The Joe Rogan experience.
If you look at a lot of my losses,
I would load up and put my head first and like, well,
why am I going to give you my.
I get back to the TJ fight, right? The two fights,
those you were more emotionally invested in those fights than any fight you've
ever had, right?
Yeah, definitely. And that's not me. I don't have to, Joe, I love the fight.
I can fight in your studio right now. You know what I mean?
I'll kick Jamie's if his pants big of his pants earlier, you know,
but, uh, [inaudible] uh,
yeah, so I never like for me to go in there and kind of have that, you know,
just an example of that. I don't need to do that. Yeah. You know, and you know,
it was great. I was a world champion felt like I had to defend it.
A lot of other stuff, you know,
the backstory of it and the injury coming off a year, I was just so,
like I said,
not mentally ready to go in there and fight that physically was like
overcompensated for the emotions.
Go into a fight with someone you don't like, it's always extremely difficult,
but for you to go into a fight with someone you don't like who you used to be
tight with. Right. And you used to train with, right.
That's gotta be like doubly different.
That's all I say. I didn't, didn't like TJ,
I don't agree with a lot of things that happen. Um,
but that's so far in the past that Neil passed that. But yeah,
I definitely taking that in there. It was my,
my mental state was not what it should have been to go in against a guy like
TJ, you know, and we can fast forward to where, you know,
he got popped and this and that TJ can be on that stuff.
He can be on that stuff.
And he still can't beat me when I'm focused and I'm mentally there and I'm in
there and I'm excited, you know, like, I'm glad that he's coming back.
He's got to prove to himself, you know,
and that's a big fight for me to come back to, you know,
in the future that's going to happen. You know?
And I feel like TJ caught me at a time where mentally I was not
in the best state of mind to go on there and be a champion.
And that's why I was taken from me. You know, I wasn't doing the right things,
you know, the slight edge things. I wasn't doing those. And, uh, you know,
he capitalized and, and I look back on it. I, I,
I kept going back in those slights and a little bit of insanity, you know,
you gotta be insane to repeat the same thing, thing in a different outcome.
And that's what I was doing in there. I was always train hard, always prepared,
ready, but what was, what was it? Wasn't nothing due then I needed to do.
It was just the slight, slight edge things,
little work this worked out and like, and looking back on it, it's, it's,
hindsight's 2020 always in a fight, but, uh, I'm thankful for that.
I have to feel like if I would have went off and defending the title and I
probably wouldn't have been as hungry and motivated as I am today and that's
going to help me out for the next five years of my career,
however long I want to fight for, you know,
I always kind of break my life down to five five-year increments, but, uh,
I'm excited for it.
I'm more hungry than ever because I know what it takes to get back to the top.
When you said that you stopped visualizing for a long time and now you're doing
it again. Are you doing it now in D do you have like a rigid format?
Do you have like a, uh,
do you have a disciplined format of visualization or do you just spend time
alone thinking about things? Like how do you do it?
Um, yeah, I do do a format, write things out, write out goals three months,
six months, a year, five years. What I want to accomplish was financial,
where I it's, you know, athletic, whites, personal growth, spiritual growth,
family growth, things like that. So I try to prioritize, um,
what I'm lacking or what's the lower grade than I give myself and try to focus
more on that. So it's all balanced.
I feel like I'm trying to balance my life more. As far as being,
I grew up in chaos, you know, I feel like I can, I do well on that,
but I'm at a different place in my life and what I want for my son and my
future. I want to have that balance of,
or you're not so a hundred percent in this and, you know, lacking this,
you know, I want to make sure it's kind of balanced across my goals,
but I feel like, you know,
going back to talking about getting out of your comfort zone,
like doing things that absolutely suck,
and you got to mentally put yourself in that position.
Well, you, in your comfort zone, when you were a champion,
like when you say getting out of your comfort zone, I know you trained hard.
So like, what is different? Right.
I think that I removed myself after, um, winning the world title.
I, I didn't feel like it was everything that I thought I was going to be in what
way? Just the whole prolific you're world champion.
You're the best in the world. You know, I didn't,
I never expected a lot of things that were happening,
but I just focuses on as you think it was going to be like, I don't know.
I don't think I had any expectations when I feel like a lot of things change
around. Oh man. Like, how does it feel like I'm still the same person.
I just kind of, you know,
I'm just a number one person in the world at what I do, you know? I don't know.
It just didn't.
Did you think that like in achieving such a great goal,
that you would feel satisfied that you would feel.
I wasn't satisfied maybe, maybe. Cause that's what at the later then the tunnel,
since I was 12 years old and I was man,
just through the journey of getting to where I was at looking back on it and I
was like, man, like, no, what's next. I didn't have the what's next.
Isn't it interesting?
Like this is the thing that gets brought up all the time about fighting.
Is that so much of it is mental, especially at the elite level,
like a year level.
So much of it is how you're approaching all aspects of your life,
how your relationship is going, how your friendships are going. Like, what,
what's your relationship with your family? You know,
that's so much of how a fight or flight.
And then what is your focus on is your focus on adulation?
Is your focus on doing interviews and letting everybody tell you you're the or
is your focus on continuous improvement? And then recognize that yeah,
you might be a world champion,
but there a bunch of hungry lions climbing up that hill to try to get to the
gang.
Yeah. You, you see it? I have, you know, Chris Holdsworth, my coach, my trainer,
my good friend. He travels with me, you know, we put through hard workouts,
you know, this morning we're going to, after your podcast. And that's the thing,
doing those balancing that, okay. I might have, you know, come on your show,
absolute honor. I got to train. I got to, you know, I can't take this week off,
we're here. And you're looking at homes and doing other things with PMP,
my other business partner. So just prioritizing, what's important.
What your goal is, how you reaching those goals, what are you working towards?
Are you reading help books, self-help books, are you reading, you know,
books to help your, your mental fortitude to strengthen that? You know,
are you doing yoga? Are you doing other so much.
And resource in staying enthusiastic, staying enthusiastic?
I think that's the main thing. I wasn't doozy.
I felt like I was just going through the motions and there's a lot of other
things. There's a lot of things that can transpire,
but I'm slowly putting the blame on myself because that's all I can control what
I do, how I react to things.
And I wasn't the person that I am during those kinds of
tribulations or trials in my life, you know, and I've grown from that. I was 24,
25 years old. I'm 29 years old. Now, you know, I've looked at the game, um,
just differently.
Catch new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free. Only on Spotify.
Watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan.